So I change the logging level so logging.
And once again monitor and I'll set this two error messages or errors so show logging Consul is set
to teach debugging.
Monitor is set to errors show debug adjacency debugging is enabled him to face if zero is less than
zero.
Shut the interface.
We have terminal monitor enabled on our telnet line.
No shut.
Once again we see debugging on the console but we see nothing on the Viti one lines and that's because
the logging on the console is debugging or Level 7 but the logging on the monitor lines these errors
are Level 3.
It's worth knowing both the name and the number.
With regards to this log messages now it it's possible to stop all logging to the local cons. If you
like and all you would do is type no logging con..
You could do something similar for other options such as the monitor lines.
So notice were not typed and nothing happened.
Control the control said nothing happened.
Show debug.
Always be if debugging is enabled.
Show logging Consul is disabled.
In this case monitoring on the monitor is set to errors.
I'll change that to level 7.
I've disabled logging on the console.
Notice I don't see output here but I see output on the Viti y line so just to show you that again.
Hit enter a few times via control Z controls it notices see the output on the Viti y line.
But I don't see the output on the console because I've disabled logging on the console all shut the
interface down on the router and then shut it.
I see the debugging on the Viti line but I see nothing on the console of the Rodda
So lets enable that again logging console debugging logging monitor debugging show log show logging
consul to set back to debugging and the monitor set to debugging.
However in this example the buffer is disabled.
So let's look at enabling logging on the buffer now in this example on Rotto one show logging shows
me that I have logging on the console and logging on the Viti one line but I don't have logging enabled
on the buffer.
Now it's very unlikely that you are going to connect to the console of all your Ratisbon switches and
to view logging messages in real time.
You may do that while troubleshooting an issue but you probably don't want to spend your whole day looking
at console messages.
You would rather have that buffered somewhere.
Even better stored in a central place which you can view off line or view at a later date.
So let's look at Buffer logging first and then we'll look at so SLOC.
So I'll set logging on the console to a low level three areas.
I'll leave it at seven on the VQ Y so that we can see the output.
And I must say logging Bufford and in this case I'll set it to seven or debugging so show log Konsole
is level 3 errors monitor lines in other words in our example of Vitti why you set to debugging and
buffer is set to debugging if on top show log again I see a message in the buffer to see the size of
the buffer so I can change that size by typing logging buffet and I can set the buffer level to a number.
I'll set it to this so show log can see the buffer sizes changed.
Now that will depend on the amount of space that you have available on your router or switch.
So let's do the test again.
Shut the interface and run it to shut it.
I don't see any log messages on the console.
I am seeing them on the Viti y but if I type should log now and scroll down.
Notice I see my OSPF messages in the log.
These were not they.
Previously I could as an example do some filtering so using plute.
And let's look for the word BBR and that'll show me all my log messages in the buffer that include the
key word B-D or it's a lot better and a lot easier to search for specific messages using the buffer
than it would be using the console or a monitor interface such as this.
The problem with buffers is they are limited in size.
You don't have gigs of buffer space available on your routers.
And the problem is if you have 100 routers you're going to end up with a hundred buffers.
It makes a lot more sense to have a centralized syslog server where you collect all the log messages
and stored in a single place that allows for a lot better searching.
You can use tools in Windows or Mac as an example to search for log messages.
It can be archived.
It's just a lot better to store your log messages on a log server.
So let's look at installing the solar wind syslog server and capturing the log messages.